date: 2012-01-16
todo:
 - status: done
   task: Replicate figure 5 from Hopkins 2011
 - status: done
   task: Run ionization test cases
 - status: do
   task: Track down cause of ChaNGa crash at time \~0.3
body: |
 Daily Log
 ========================================================================
 
 Monday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Over the weekend I received and email from Greg suggesting I remove the 
 `-DRTF` flag from gasoline to speed up the running (specifically the
 problem with ;arge values of `iRung`.)  This worked, and James suggested I
 try running with the `-DRTFORCE` enabled.
 
 Tuesday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I've started a test of Greg's IC with the `-DRTFORCE`.  We shall see if it
 is slow or not soon.  I'm also going to finish reproducing the Hopkins figure, 
 using `Research/code/scripts/mass_inflow.py`.  I've copied all the mass
 inflow code I've been playing with to 
 `Research/code/scripts/mass_inflow_test.py`.  It looks like I may need to
 do some more playing, as there is some issue with reproducing the values of
 `dM/dt` that are found in Hopkins figure 1.  I think this may be due to
 the low age of the galaxy.  We'll see what happens if I evolve it further.
 
 Thursday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Today was a very productive day.  We had a group meeting early, at 10AM, in
 which I showed off the pynmovies I made.  After lunch, I met with James and
 we discussed the direction my work will be going in coming months, with a focus
 on a potential paper extending Cameron Hummels work on suppression of star 
 formation through metal cooling.  What James wants to do is produce a comparison
 of three runs, all with cosmological initial conditions: one with just metal
 cooling, one with metal cooling plus Rayleigh-Taylor subgrid modelling, and one
 with RT forces and the ionization feedback.  James hopes this will let us 
 produce a paper in just a few months.  I believe he suggested we use Greg's 
 g1536 initial conditions as a starting point to run these test cases.  James
 also sent me a new IC of a simple MW-type galaxy.  I've stored it at 
 `Research/data/isol_galaxy` on fox2, and I am running a version of it
 with and without ionization.  James also wanted to take a look at starformation
 rates, so I've written a tool to read and plot data from the XDR-formatted 
 starlog files that gasoline produces.  This tool is at 
 `Research/code/scripts/starlog.py`.  I'll be extending it as time allows.
 
 Friday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 James and I found (and subsequently fixed) a major bug in gasoline where it was
 not actually ionizing and heating the gas around a new star, but the star 
 particle itself.  I've restarted all the jobs that were affected by this with 
 the fixed version of gasoline.  James also suggested I generate some plots to 
 examine the results:  one of a temperature histogram (particles in T bins),
 and one of $\log T$ vs  $\log\rho$ to see if the gas chunks are actually getting
 ionized.  I've also organized my files on orca a bit more.  Here's where the
 runs are all currently stored:
 * `/work/kellerbw/g1536_noionize_DRTFORCE`
 
 	Greg's g1536 ICs, run with
 	UV ionization disabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid flag on.  Metal cooling
 	is used here too.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/g1536_ionize_DRTFORCE`
 	Greg's g1536 ICs, run with
 	UV ionization enabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid flag on.  Metal cooling
 	is used here too.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/isol_galaxy_ionization_DRTFORCE`}
 	James' simple 
 	galaxy IC, run with UV ionization enabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid 
 	flag on.  Metal cooling is used here too.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/isol_galaxy_noionization_DRTFORCE`}
 	James' simple 
 	galaxy IC, run with UV ionization disabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid 
 	flag on.  Metal cooling is used here too.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_ionization_DRTFORCE`}
 	Tom's ICs, run with
 	UV ionization enabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid flag on.  Metal cooling
 	is used here too.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_noionization_DRTFORCE`}
 	Tom's ICs, run with
 	UV ionization disabled, and using the RTFORCE RT subgrid flag on.  Metal cooling
 	is used here too.
 
 I've also tarballed up some older runs that may not be of use in the future:
 * `/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_1strun.tar.gz`
 	The first successful full run
 	of Tom's ICs.  This may be crap, as I ran it with cosmological cooling, rather
 	than metal cooling.  Also, UV background is off.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_1strun_moresteps.tar.gz`}
 	The same as above,
 	but with tipsy outputs every 1 timesteps instead of every 10.
 
 * `/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_noionization_DRTF.tar.gz`}
 	The same as 
 	`Tom_IC_noionization_DRTFORCE`, but with the `-DRTF` flag instead of
 	`-DRTFORCE`.  This flag totally shits the bed in some density edge 
 	situations, so I don't think we will be using it in the future.
