date: 2012-01-23
todo: 
 - status: started
   task: Replicate figure 5 from Hopkins 2011
 - status: do
   task: Track down cause of ChaNGa crash at time 0.3
body: |
 Daily Log
 ================================================================================
 
 Wednesday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I have come to the unfortunate realization that gasoline's checkpointing behaves
 poorly with the \verb!.log! and \verb!.starlog! files, as in it just gives up
 writing to them if there is a file already there.  Ugh.  So, all of my "resumed"
 jobs are lacking starformation history files.  I have restarted Tom's ICs for
 the non-ionized part, because the starlog was broken.  It looks like gasoline is
 \textit{supposed} to resume things gracefully, but I guess something on orca
 crapped out again.  This is particulary weird, because g1536 has restarted fine
 a number of times. So the status with my current simulations are:
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/g1536_noionize_DRTFORCE!}
 	Still running, iRung is going crazy again though
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/g1536_ionize_DRTFORCE!}
 	Still running, iRung is going crazy again though
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/isol_galaxy_ionization_DRTFORCE!\checkmark}
 	Finished, copied to fox2, but the starformation rate is so low (or resolution 
 	is too coarse) to see any big difference in the SFR without ionization
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/isol_galaxy_noionization_DRTFORCE!\checkmark}i
 	See above 
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_ionization_DRTFORCE!\checkmark}
 	Looks good, needs to run longer.  I've set it up for 400 steps, instead of the 
 	previous 150.
 
 * \verb!/work/kellerbw/Tom_IC_noionization_DRTFORCE!}
 	The log and starlog are totally wrecked.  I've restarted from the beginning, 
 	but orca is being difficult today, so it may take a while
 
 James suggested examining a density versus temperature phase diagram as a way 
 of comparing runs.
