date: 2012-07-04
todo:
 - status: done
   task: Get phase diagram for ionization run at $\approx 100$ Myr
 - status: started
   task: Re-run EVERYTHING without divv, and with proper initial star masses
 - status: started
   task: Run with ionization, no SN
 - status: do
   task: Run with 4 glommed together versions of the IC (in the x-y plane)
body: |
 Daily Log
 ================================================================================
 Monday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Met with James today.  We discussed many things.  Apparently, it is accepted 
 practice (read tradition) to build stars in the following way:  2 stars are 
 made from from each gas particle, each with a mass of 0.3 the initial gas 
 particle, leaving 0.4 of the gas remaining.  Feedback and accretion happens, 
 and gas particles below 0.1 get deleted (I assume that means they get accreted
 on to the star particles?)
 
 Thursday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 In looking at the phase diagram comparing the ionizing and non-ionizing 
 feedback, it appears that particles are being brought up to 4000K rather than 
 8000K.  I will see why this is happening.  I think this is actually reasonable.
 The ionization feedback first knocks particles up to $T_{ionize}=8000$, but 
 they will cool quickly to below $T_{ionizeMin}=4000$, where they will be kicked
 back up again.
 
 Friday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I have discovered the unhappy fact that gasoline's checkpointing system does not
 allow you to change the extra storage parameter (important if you are going to
 be turning a few gas particles into many star particles) without restarting a 
 simulation from time zero.  Thus, I needed to re-start from scratch the last
 remaining re-runs of Chris' IC to get them not to crash.
 
