date: 2012-08-27
todo:
 - status: started
   task: Run disk comparison - basic test
 - status: started
   task: Rerun MAGICC onestar with no cooling (bGasAdiabatic)
 - status: done
   task: Check on dESN in feedback for the onestar box
 - status: do
   task: Debug James' smDtSmooth
 - status: done
   task: Get better onestar plots
 - status: do
   task: Symposium day talk.
 - status: do
   task: Read Behroozi paper
 - status: done
   task: Fancy zoom-in videos
 - status: started
   task: Re-run Chris IC with DRTFORCE
 - status: do
   task: Make Isotropic onestar box.
 - status: do
   task: Fix onestar box timesteps
 - status: do
   task: Get phase plots of the g1536 galaxy
body: |
 Daily Log
 ================================================================================
 
 Monday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I think the runs of the onestar boxes are done.  I'm going to produce the proper
 plots and build a page on my website for it.

 The g1536 run is going to take months.  I don't think I'm going to get much of 
 any use there.  Perhaps Rory has a completed run...

 Woah boy.  Another epic 2 hour James meeting.  I might be meeting with Samantha
 this week to offload some of the large-scale stuff to her.

 I've created ICs for Oscar's disk comparison project, and fired the low resolution 
 version up on orca.  I'll see how it looks in the morning.  Oops, forgot to add a
 softening length.  The readme says the resolution is 80 kpc, so I'll use 1/4 of 
 that to be safe.

 Tuesday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I've finished running the low res version of oscar's disk.  I'm going to make a
 video of the results to see how things look.

 I met with James.  He suggests I look at the evolution of the 1/2 mass radius 
 as a function of time.  He also gave me some ideas for my Symposium day talk, 
 along with an email.  He suggests I look at the big picture, and keep it
 positive.  Avoid sarcasm, etc.

 I've fired up the re-runs of the onestar box on iqaluk.  I'll download the
 results tomorrow when I get in.


 Thursday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 James and I had a skype conversation with Greg today.  Greg is anxious to come
 up with a justification for the... aggressive nature of MAGICC.

 Friday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Spent the entire day working on my presentation for symposium day. along with a
 good meeting with James about it.  In general, I need to pay more attention to
 my audience.  In other words, the narrative-heavy TED style talks are good for
 outreach and public talks, but I need to focus on the science details for
 academic talks.  He gave me some good pointers:

 * Remove content-free slides (intros, outlines, etc.)
 * Don't use fragment bullet points (give people time to think about the slide)
 * Less history
 * Don't just talk about my "personal philosophy"

 I'm going to revise the slides today, and send the newest version to James when
 I'm done.
