date: 2012-01-30
todo:
 - status: do
   task: Figure out if the stellar gas ionization is actually affecting SFR
 - status: started
   task: Replicate figure 5 from Hopkins 2011
 - status: do
   task: Track down cause of ChaNGa crash at time \~0.3
body: |
 Daily Log
 ==========================================================================
 
 Thursday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I'm a bit baffled.  The run of Tom's ICs using the DRTFORCE flag and the 
 ionization (comparing the ionization on/off) doesn't seem to be producing a whit
 of difference in the actual output.  As 
 \verb!Research/code/scripts/compareSFR_Tom_IC_DRTFORCE.py! shows, the total
 SFR is barely different, aside from the initial peak happening earlier (!).  
 Also alarming is the total mass, shown by 
 \verb!Research/code/scripts/compareStarMass_Tom_IC_DRTFORCE.py!.  I'm going to
 write a script to try and look at the temperature vs. density as James 
 suggested.
 
 I've plotted and pondered the phase diagram of the gas particles in Tom's ICs
 (general $T$ vs $\rho$ plotting script at 
 \verb!Research/code/scripts/plot_T_rho.py!, comparison script at
 
 \verb!Research/code/scripts/compare_T_rho_Tom_IC_DRTFORCE.py!).  Kevin and I
 hypothesize the lack of SF quenching is due to sloppy conditions in gasoline's
 ionization subroutine.  What appears to be happening is the ``heating'' of 
 dense molecular gas is occuring along with (in reality cooling) of hot, thin
 halo gas.  Looking at the code, I don't think this is actually what is occuring.
 It should be checking that the temperature of the particles ionized is below
 \verb!dIonizeTMin! and \verb!dIonizeT!.  I wonder if it has to do with the 
 following lines not occuring within the if statement checking that the
 temperature is below \verb!dIonizeT!:
 
      mgot += q->fMass;
      ngot++;
      tCoolAgain = smf->dIonizeTime+smf->dTime;
      if (tCoolAgain > q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil) q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil=tCoolAgain;
 
 I've created an alternate gasoline source tree at 
 \verb!Research/code/gasoline_ionization_bettercheck!.  In there, I've
 switched the following lines in \verb!smoothfcn.c! from:
 
 	      mgot += q->fMass;
 	      ngot++;
 	      tCoolAgain = smf->dIonizeTime+smf->dTime;
 	      if (tCoolAgain > q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil) q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil=tCoolAgain;
 	if (T < smf->dIonizeT) {
 		  CoolInitEnergyAndParticleData( smf->pkd->Cool, &q->CoolParticle, &q->u, q->fDensity, 
 	smf->dIonizeT, q->fMetals );
 		  }
 
 To this:
 
 	if (T < smf->dIonizeT) {
 		  mgot += q->fMass;
 		  ngot++;
 		  tCoolAgain = smf->dIonizeTime+smf->dTime;
 		  if (tCoolAgain > q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil) q->fTimeCoolIsOffUntil=tCoolAgain;
 		  CoolInitEnergyAndParticleData( smf->pkd->Cool, &q->CoolParticle, &q->u, q->fDensity, 
 	smf->dIonizeT, q->fMetals );
 		  }
 
 Friday
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I've created a nice little script for plotting the difference between the 
 ionization and no ionization version of Tom's ICs.  It works by doing a 2D
 histogram of the $\rho-T$ diagram, and then just subtracting the bin values for
 the two versions.  It's at 
 \verb!Research/code/scripts/compare_T_rho_Tom_IC_DRTFORCE2.py!.  As it shows, 
 there is some interesting stuff going on, where the ionization seems to be 
 upping the density in the S-shaped part of the phase diagram, while also 
 depleting the highest density chunk of the high-temperature string of particles.
