date: 2012-04-24
todo:
 - status: done
   task: Rewrite Chris' density profile code to generate SPH ICs
 - status: done
   task: Generate Tipsy file from Chris' IC
 - status: do
   task: Add Chris' potential to gasoline's pstGravExternal
 - status: do
   task: Run Chris' Disk adiabatically
 - status: do
   task: Run Chris' Disk with fabiogal parameter
body: |
 Ultimate Goal
 ====================================================================================
 Produce realistic (physically accurate) Starformation histories and rates in
 Milky-Way type galaxy simulations.  This means that their feedback properties
 and their SFR/SF histories must match observations.  These observations can
 be found in Leroy et al. 2008,  Walter 2008 (the THINGS paper), Kennicutt 2008, etc.
 
 How to accomplish this
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I am trying to tackle the problem of overcooling and hyperactive starformation
 by incorporating more/better physics into the SPH simulation code.  These are 
 either improvements on the existing subgrid physics (to better match the 
 physical conditions of the galaxy) or to add new physics (some process that is
 either unresolved, or is more than just gravity+hydro).  As of today, I have
 three main prongs that I will be using to try and achieve my goal
 
 * *RT Force* This is an implementation of the Ritchie and Thomas multiphase
 SPH described in Ritchie \& Thomas 2001.  James has already written this into
 gasoline, but I will be testing it out extensively.  The hope is that this
 technique will somehow improve the SFR in galaxies because of its better 
 handling of fluids made of particles with different densities
 * *Simple UV Ionization* Elizabeth Harper-Clark's Thesis describes the 
 disruption of starforming regions by the clusters they form.  She found an 
 empirical relation between the amount of stellar mass a Giant Molecular Cloud
 needs to form in order to ionize itself and disrupt star formation in it of 
 roughly 7:1 gas:star mass.  James and I banged together a really quick 
 implementation of this in gasoline, and it just heats up neighbours of a newly
 formed star to 10,000K and turns off their cooling for a while.  Hopefully this
 will kill off starformation by obliterating clouds that form a lot of stars.
 We will need decent resolution, though, so that the GMCs can actually have
 a reasonable number of particles in them.
 * *Hopkins BH Accretion* Gasoline already has some support for sink 
 particles.  I'm going to add the accretion model from Hopkins 2008 to gasoline,
 and do some simulations of galaxies with SMBH sink particles using this better
 accretion.  Hopefully this will give us some feedback (How?) that will suppress
 starformation.
 
 Daily Log
 ====================================================================================
 
 Wednesday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Today I finished the first draft of the poster abstract for CASCA.  I've also 
 transcribed my research road map and downloaded some background reading.
 
 Friday
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Today I *really* got Chris' IC particles finished.  I needed to correct
 a number of bugs.  First and foremost, I forgot that the the distribution 
 function will automatically try to stretch the z-dimension to its appropriate
 size, so I didn't need to make a non-cubic glass to seed the thing.  I've
 also made separate top and bottom halves, because the reflection way I was
 doing it previously was a bad idea.  I just ``glue'' the top and bottom slices
 together by catting them into a common file.  My next goal is to turn the 
 ascii ICs into a tipsy file.
 
 Finished making a tipsy file of the ICs`  The script `mktipsy.py` takes
 the ascii IC position and temperature values and generates initial 
 conditons.  All this stuff is in `Research/code/chris_IC`
 
 I need to also implement an additional external potential into gasoline to 
 capture the potential that Chris is using.  Without it, his ICs will blow up.
 James suggested I start using the `pkdBodyForce` in `pkd.c` and 
 modify it to fit with Chris' potential.  Once this is done, we will be able to
 actually run the IC.  As a first test, James wants me to run it adiabatically
 (no cooling or starformation).  If it is working, it should just sit happily 
 and not really evolve.  Once this is working, we will want to run it using the
 fabiogal parameter file I placed in `Research/code/chris_IC`.  I have some
 nice clear objectives for the immediate future.  Excellent.
